[IMP] l10n_ec/accounting: ats report (#7944)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/fiscal_localizations/ecuador.rst

.. image:: ecuador/104-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Report 104 form for Ecuador.

ATS report
----------

:ref:`Install <general/install>` the *ATS Report* (`l10n_ec_reports_ats`) module to enable
downloading the ATS report in XML format.

.. note::
   The Ecuadorian *ATS Report* module is dependent on the previous installation of the *Accounting*
   app and the *Ecuadorian EDI module*.

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To issue electronic documents, first complete the configurations of your company in the Ecuadorian
> :ref:`electronic invoice <l10n_ec/configure-your-company>` flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To issue electronic documents, ensure your company is configured as explained in the
:ref:`electronic invoice <l10n_ec/configure-your-company>` section.
```

In the :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)`, every document generated in Odoo (invoices,
vendor bills, sales and purchases withholdings, credit notes, and debit notes) will be included.

Vendor bills
************

When generating a vendor bill, it is necessary to register the authorization number from the
invoice that the vendor generated for the purchase. To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting

> --> Vendors --> Bills` and select the bill. Then, enter the number from the vendor's invoice in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--> Vendors --> Bills` and select the bill. Then, enter the number from the vendor's invoice in
```

the :guilabel:`Authorization Number` field.

Credit and debit notes
**********************

When generating a credit note or debit note manually or through importation, it is necessary to link
this note to the sales invoice that is being modified by it.

.. note::

>    Remember to add all of the required information to the documents prior to downloading the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Remember to add all required information to the documents before downloading the
```

   :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` file. For example, add the *Authorization Number*
   and the *SRI Payment Method* on documents, when needed.

XML generation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To generate the :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` report, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Reports --> Tax Report` and choose a time period for the desired
:abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` report, then click :guilabel:`ATS`.

> This will download the XML file that is ready to upload to *DIMM Formularios*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The downloaded XML file is ready to be uploaded to *DIMM Formularios*.
```

  Odoo.
- Filter the date range, and export the XML file.
- The generated XML file is ready to upload to *DIMM Formularios*.

.. note::
   The Ecuadorian *ATS Report* module is dependent on the previous installation of the *Accounting*
   app and the *Ecuadorian EDI module*.

Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To begin, complete the configurations of your company in the Ecuadorian :ref:`electronic invoice
<l10n_ec/configure-your-company>` flow. This step is necessary to complete to correctly issue the
electronic documents.

In the :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)`, every document generated in Odoo (invoices,
vendor bills, sales and purchases withholdings, credit notes, debit notes) will be included.

Vendor bills
************

When generating a vendor bill, it is necessary to register the authorization number in the from the
invoice that the vendor generated for the purchase.

To do so, go to :menuselection:`Accounting --> Vendors --> Bills` and select the bill. Then, edit
the :guilabel:`Authorization Number` field and type the number from the vendor's invoice.

Credit and debit notes
**********************

> When generating a credit note or debit note manually or through importation, is it necessary to link

Author: ```suggestion
When generating a credit note or debit note manually or through importation, it is necessary to link
```

> this note to the sales invoices that is being modified by it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this note to the sales invoice that is being modified by it.
```
I'm not sure if this was just a typo and it was supposed to be singular or if credit/debit notes can be linked to multiple invoices. If they can be linked to multiple invoices, I'd say "...to the sales invoice(s) being modified by it."

Author: @dade-odoo @samueljlieber I agree with this change.

.. note::

>    Remember to add all of the required information in the documents prior to downloading the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Remember to add all of the required information to the documents prior to downloading the
```

   :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` file. For example, add the *Authorization Number*
   and the *SRI Payment Method* on documents, when needed.

XML generation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To generate the :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` report, go to
:menuselection:`Accounting --> Reports --> Tax Report` and choose a time period for the desired

> :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` report, then click :guilabel:`Download ATS`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` report, then click :guilabel:`ATS`.
```

> .. image:: ecuador/l10n-ec-ats-report.png
>    :align: center
>    :alt: l10n_ec ATS Report.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
The text is clear enough that a screenshot shouldn't be necessary. This helps the doc need less updating due to simple UI changes and also lightens the load of the documentation. Don't forget to delete the actual file of the screenshot as well.

> This will download the XML file that is ready to import in *DIMM Formularios*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will download the XML file that is ready to upload to *DIMM Formularios*.
```
I think "upload to" sounds better (and is what was used above) but if "import in" makes more sense to you since you are more knowledgeable about the process, I'll trust you :)

.. note::
   When downloading the :abbr:`ATS (Anexo Transaccional Simplificado)` report, Odoo generates a

>    warning pop-up alerting the user that a document(s) have missing or incorrect data. Nevertheless,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   warning pop-up alerting the user if a document(s) has missing or incorrect data. Nevertheless,
```
Does this alert always occur? From my test it seems that it doesn't, so I recommend using "if", but if I'm wrong and it always appears, you can keep "that"

   the user can still download the XML file.

> 
>    .. image:: ecuador/l10n-ec-ats-report-warning.png
>       :align: center
>       :alt: l10n_ec ATS Report warning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Same reasoning as above - the text is clear enough that we don't need the added burden of a screenshot, especially one with mixed languages.
